README.md, before:

BEESOFT.web
===========

![alt text](https://beeverycreative.com/wp-content/themes/beevc%20oficial/stylesheets/imgs/bee-soft-logo.png "BEESOFT logo")


BEESOFT.web is a web interface designed to run in a RaspberryPi and it is used for controlling a Beeverycreative printer (BEETHEFIRST, BEETHEFIRST+, ...).
It is Free Software and released under the [GNU Affero General Public License V3](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html).

This project is based on the open-source project [Octoprint] (http://octoprint.org)


Installation & Dependencies
---------------------------

BEESOFT.web depends on a couple of python modules to do its job. Those are automatically installed when installing
BEESOFT.web via `setup.py`:

    python setup.py install

You should also do this every time after pulling from the repository, since the dependencies might have changed.

BEESOFT.web currently only supports Python 2.7.

Usage
-----

Running the `setup.py` script via

    python setup.py install

installs the `beeweb` script in your Python installation's scripts folder
(which depending on whether you installed BEESOFT.web globally or into a virtual env will be on your `PATH` or not). The
following usage examples assume that said `beeweb` script is on your `PATH`.

You can start the server via

    beeweb

By default it binds to all interfaces on port 5000 (so pointing your browser to `http://127.0.0.1:5000`
will do the trick). If you want to change that, use the additional command line parameters `host` and `port`,
which accept the host ip to bind to and the numeric port number respectively. If for example you want the server
to only listen on the local interface on port 8080, the command line would be

    beeweb --host=127.0.0.1 --port=8080

Alternatively, the host and port on which to bind can be defined via the configuration.

If you want to run BEESOFT.web as a daemon (only supported on Linux), use

    beeweb --daemon {start|stop|restart} [--pid PIDFILE]

If you do not supply a custom pidfile location via `--pid PIDFILE`, it will be created at `/tmp/beeweb.pid`.

You can also specify the configfile or the base directory (for basing off the `uploads`, `timelapse` and `logs` folders),
e.g.:

    beeweb --config /path/to/another/config.yaml --basedir /path/to/my/basedir

See `beeweb --help` for further information.

BEESOFT.web also ships with a `run` script in its source directory. You can also invoke that to start up the server, it
takes the same command line arguments as the `beeweb` script.

Configuration
-------------

If not specified via the commandline, the configfile `config.yaml` for BEESOFT.web is expected in the settings folder,
which is located at `~/.beeweb` on Linux, at `%APPDATA%/BEEweb` on Windows and
at `~/Library/Application Support/BEEweb` on MacOS.

Please note that the most commonly used configuration settings can also easily
be edited from BEESOFT.web's settings dialog.

If you want to customize the look of the application change the octoprint.less file under the static/less directory.
Install the tool lessc using npm, and compile the main less file using the following command line:

$ lessc -x octoprint.less ../css/octoprint.css

If you want to generate the translation binary files from the .po files run the following command:

$ msgfmt messages.po --output-file messages.mo

or use the utility script in the project root: 

$ compile-messages.sh

Commit message:

BEEWEB-235 Updated translations pot file + README

README.md, after:

BEESOFT.web
===========

![alt text](https://beeverycreative.com/wp-content/themes/beevc%20oficial/stylesheets/imgs/bee-soft-logo.png "BEESOFT logo")


BEESOFT.web is a web interface designed to run in a RaspberryPi and it is used for controlling a Beeverycreative printer (BEETHEFIRST, BEETHEFIRST+, ...).
It is Free Software and released under the [GNU Affero General Public License V3](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html).

This project is based on the open-source project [Octoprint] (http://octoprint.org)


Installation & Dependencies
---------------------------

BEESOFT.web depends on a couple of python modules to do its job. Those are automatically installed when installing
BEESOFT.web via `setup.py`:

    python setup.py install

You should also do this every time after pulling from the repository, since the dependencies might have changed.

BEESOFT.web currently only supports Python 2.7.

Usage
-----

Running the `setup.py` script via

    python setup.py install

installs the `beeweb` script in your Python installation's scripts folder
(which depending on whether you installed BEESOFT.web globally or into a virtual env will be on your `PATH` or not). The
following usage examples assume that said `beeweb` script is on your `PATH`.

You can start the server via

    beeweb

By default it binds to all interfaces on port 5000 (so pointing your browser to `http://127.0.0.1:5000`
will do the trick). If you want to change that, use the additional command line parameters `host` and `port`,
which accept the host ip to bind to and the numeric port number respectively. If for example you want the server
to only listen on the local interface on port 8080, the command line would be

    beeweb --host=127.0.0.1 --port=8080

Alternatively, the host and port on which to bind can be defined via the configuration.

If you want to run BEESOFT.web as a daemon (only supported on Linux), use

    beeweb --daemon {start|stop|restart} [--pid PIDFILE]

If you do not supply a custom pidfile location via `--pid PIDFILE`, it will be created at `/tmp/beeweb.pid`.

You can also specify the configfile or the base directory (for basing off the `uploads`, `timelapse` and `logs` folders),
e.g.:

    beeweb --config /path/to/another/config.yaml --basedir /path/to/my/basedir

See `beeweb --help` for further information.

BEESOFT.web also ships with a `run` script in its source directory. You can also invoke that to start up the server, it
takes the same command line arguments as the `beeweb` script.

Configuration
-------------

If not specified via the commandline, the configfile `config.yaml` for BEESOFT.web is expected in the settings folder,
which is located at `~/.beeweb` on Linux, at `%APPDATA%/BEEweb` on Windows and
at `~/Library/Application Support/BEEweb` on MacOS.

Please note that the most commonly used configuration settings can also easily
be edited from BEESOFT.web's settings dialog.

If you want to customize the look of the application change the octoprint.less file under the static/less directory.
Install the tool lessc using npm, and compile the main less file using the following command line:

$ lessc -x octoprint.less ../css/octoprint.css


Translations
------------

If you to generate the base .pot file with all the translations, run the following command in the root of the project:

$ pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k lazy_gettext -o translations/messages.pot .


If you want to generate the translation binary files from the .po files run the following command:

$ msgfmt messages.po --output-file messages.mo

or use the utility script in the project root: 

$ compile-messages.sh
